The coming of Æneas into Italy, and his achievements there; the
reign of Ascanius in Alba, and of the other Sylvian kings. Romulus
and Remus born. Amulius killed. Romulus builds Rome; forms a
senate; makes war upon the Sabines; presents the_ opima spolia _to
Jupiter Feretrius; divides the people into_ curiæ; _his victories;
is deified. Numa institutes the rites of religious worship; builds
a temple to Janus; and having made peace with all his neighbours,
closes it for the first time; enjoys a peaceful reign, and is
succeeded by Tullus Hostilius. War with the Albans; combat of the
Horatii and Curiatii. Alba demolished, and the Albans made citizens
of Rome. War declared against the Sabines; Tullus killed by
lightning. Ancus Marcius renews the religious institutions of Numa;
conquers the Latins, confers on them the right of citizenship, and
assigns them the Aventine hill to dwell on; adds the hill Janiculum
to the city; enlarges the bounds of the empire. In his reign Lucumo
comes to Rome; assumes the name of Tarquinius; and, after the death
of Ancus, is raised to the throne. He increases the senate, by
adding to it a hundred new senators; defeats the Latins and
Sabines; augments the centuries of knights; builds a wall round the
city; makes the common sewers; is slain by the sons of Ancus after
a reign of thirty-eight years; and is succeeded by Servius Tullius.
He institutes the census; closes the lustrum, in which eighty
thousand citizens are said to have been enrolled; divides the
people into classes and centuries; enlarges the Pomœrium, and
adds the Quirinal, Viminal, and Esquiline hills to the city; after
a reign of forty years, is murdered by L. Tarquin, afterwards
surnamed Superbus. He usurps the crown. Tarquin makes war on the
Volsci, and, with the plunder taken from them, builds a temple to
Jupiter Capitolinus. By a stratagem of his son, Sextus Tarquin, he
reduces the city of Gabii; after a reign of twenty-five years is
dethroned and banished, in consequence of the forcible violation of
the person of Lucretia by his son Sextus. L. Junius Brutus and L.
Tarquinius Collatinus first created consuls.